Agentic AI for Economic Research — Session 1 (trimmed transcript)
Window: 00:11:20 → 02:19:40

Le Moglie Marco (marco.lemoglie)   0:07
Thank you for coming.
I hope that this course will be helpful for many of you,
especially because many of you is still asking for, I mean,
suggestion about how to use this new technology. for the research workflow.
And this is indeed the aim of this course, try to provide you with some necessary,
I would say, idea about how to use it in your own. Research workflow. At the moment,
I don't know if you received the slides, but once you receive the slides,
if you click on this slide source on GitHub,
you get directly on the GitHub repository of this course,
where there are the slide of today, but also I gonna post the. recording of today and the slide for the
next class. Okay, so just go there and download everything.
You can use it, everything for your own necessary.
So if you have to teach this stuff or to somebody else, you can just take the tech file on the repository,
modify and use it. Okay. So probably I have not to say who I am
since many of you know me. I'm an applied economist.
I'm not a computer science. So essentially I will not. provide you with the technical stuff
behind these new tools and methods. I'm just provide you with some example,
especially in the next session, about how to use it in your daily
workflow, okay, in different step of your daily workflow. Why this course exists? As I said before,
essentially in order to avoid to having people keeping asking for a question
about this tool, try to provide you a general overview of
these tools. What this course is not, Well, essentially,
this is not a coding course. This is not a comparison between a large
language model, neither a discussion about the usefulness
of artificial intelligence, the way which this will steal our job.
What is actually is just a practical map. for using an agent in economics research
without any kind of losing control about what you do. Okay. So today,
we're going to discuss some vocabulary. What is an agent?
We're going to look at the type of interfaces that you can use in order to
use agents. In particular, I will stress a lot the issue of control
of what agents do. We're going to discuss how agentic
architecture typically is structured. So we're going to talk about rules. connector, MCP, memories,
and so on and so forth. And lastly, we're going to see very briefly some
example of using these new tools in your research flow that we're going to discuss
better in detail. So with the live streaming with live streaming in the next session.
Here, I mean, the next session, I provide you with a list of tentative
things that I would like to show you directly using the agents.
Probably I will add something, I will drop something else. I'm not... done,
I've not done the roadmap of our next session yet.
So this probably will change with respect to what we will do actually in the next
session. So this is a practical map, it's not a technical manual.
I just suggest you to go on internet, which is full of resources,
especially on YouTube, to start to play with agents.
The idea of this course, they try to provide you with a framework
that avoid you the two extreme of these resources on internet,
which are the alarmistic, as I call them, resources in which they essentially talk
mostly about how these were going to still your job,
but also there are a lot of resources which are try to sell you something in
particular course about the use of agent EI. Okay, so I try to give you some,
an overview that help you to navigate among these sources, but What I've learned is something that you
can easily learn by yourself by going on YouTube and just digit agentic EI,
Codecode, Codex and whatever. OK, and you find a lot of resources online
for practicing. So why now?
Why we are talking about this stuff today? Well,
essentially because this world is running very fast. We are moving from Chatbot,
which was essentially the ChatGPT and similar that you probably already use, in which essentially you just ask
question, okay, you prompt question, you receive answer to assistant,
which was another step, a first step undertaken in the last years,
up to the current situation of this world, of this agenda world,
in which essentially we have not just the chat bot, but proper work bot that help you to do
things. Okay, so plan things to do, call tools, and reiterate this action.
Essentially, this means that while before we had just
to control the correctness of the answer provided by the chat bot, Now,
the dimension of control and delegation that you are giving to this agent is much
wider, and so there are much more things to
control. Something that I want to add since the
beginning is the fact that, I mean... Clearly here,
the control sphere is widening A lot. Okay, a lot. But still,
this is much less time consuming than doing things by your own.
Because the control sphere was present also in your common workflow. Okay.
But then you had also to do all the part before the control. So coding,
finding the data, cleaning the data, analyzing the data,
all this stuff in some way. consume time, a lot of time,
is not 100% sure that what you did by your own was right. And so in some way,
probably you strive a lot, you put a lot of effort for something
that at the end was also wrong. Now instead,
what you have to do is essentially let The agent cook and control a lot what is
cooked. Okay? Clearly, it takes times, much times than before,
just because the amount of files, the amount of artifact that the agent
create are. an order greater than at least one order
greater than the one that you produced by your own. Also,
because once you write code, probably you already know where control
where not. But again, still the time saving is Very big, OK,
so you just have to control a lot. So why now? Well,
essentially because not just this world is running fast,
but also the adoption of this world is running fast. While in 2023,
according to the Nature Survey, one out of three of individuals in the
research use, have used the a chatbot, while just 8% use it weekly.
Nowadays, almost all researchers use chatbot,
and one out of three use it weekly. Okay, this is just regarding chatbot. Okay,
we are not talking about Argent World here, but Just by looking at this,
you can see that the adoption is even faster probably than how this world is
running. So you really need to know what is
happening. Okay. Otherwise, you lose the competitive advantage or
rather, this is especially true for PhD, but For faculty,
if you start to use it without knowing how to use it,
you can really lose scientific control of what you do, OK? So what is the difference with respect to
ChatGPT in 2022-23? Well, essentially now your AI can call tools,
can use tools, could be browser, use your home files,
your home application, your laptop. coding, use your shell,
your terminal to do things. It has memory. That's something that ChatGPT completely
missed. You didn't have memory across
conversation, even within the same account. OK,
now you can have it. OK, and so Essentially, UEI remember what you did,
and essentially this is helping you a lot in avoiding to prompting each time what
you really need, especially for the most repeatable task
that actually are the ones in which this kind of tool are very useful. Okay,
and then autonomy. So essentially with respect to ChatGPT,
now the agent help you to lay down a plan for what need to be done and then discuss
this plan with you, approving this plan and let them
autonomously implement the plan. OK, eventually finding error. by themselves and correcting those errors. Why we are very exposed as economists to
this world? Well, essentially because most of our tasks are
very repetitive. Okay, many of our tasks include long writing,
long reading, that can be in some way is shortened by the use of this tool.
We code a lot, at least for applied economies.
We code a lot. Most of the time, the coding pipeline are very fragile.
Reproducibility is not so high, especially when you are still in the,
you know, working paper stage of your work. While instead, for example,
at the end of the chain, you are required nowadays,
a strong degree of reproducibility. I don't know how many of you have
submitted or, I mean, got some acceptance recently and the
policy in terms of reproduction by the top journal. are very strict nowadays.
Most of the time in the last my experience with the last acceptance with
the economic journal was like three months of working on reproduction stuff.
Okay, with back and forward with the data
editor because something was not perfectly reproducible on all machines.
They want a very detailed read me in order to know where the data come from,
from the scratch, from the raw data up to the cleaned ones,
and so on and so forth. So at the moment, this kind of process is very fragile in the middle. Okay.
And what happens is typically is that you spend a lot of time at the end of the
chain in order to make this fragile process more robust in order to submit
this to the data ID of the journal. Okay. And this tool could help a lot in this
kind of procedure. since the beginning. Okay,
so maintaining ordered everything since the beginning of your project. Um... I mean, these are two papers,
probably you have read. The one is on the journal economic
perspective, another in the QJE, in which essentially they try to
understand and analyze how these new tools are already used within the
economic profession. The The Cottini paper essentially assess the
fact that this kind of tool are already well established within the profession.
Many of the economists in top department use them in different stage of the
research workflow from the idea up to the review of the
manuscript. We are moving fastly from cognitive
assistance of this tool toward cognitive automation of this research workflow,
which most of these tasks are in some way automated and done
autonomously by the machine and then controlled by the human.
Most of this productivity gain regard the lower level of the productivity
distribution within the The field,
so the ones who probably most are affected,
positively affected by the use of this tool are those. coming from not top department,
I would say, just because this kind of tool
essentially erase any kind of competitive advantage that top department could
provide to their faculty or their PhD student in terms of coding,
from tier course and so on and so forth. But this gain come not by just automatize
everything, okay? But you have to learn the way in which
you can apply this tool. And so a workflow that should be stable,
reproducible, And robust, OK. As I said before,
the implication for PhD and faculty is straightforward. For PhD,
you lose competitive advantage if you have it. But I think that,
especially talking to our PhD student, This is a way that help you to catch up
with PhD students from top departments. Because really,
this allows you to test the idea to write papers that probably before you couldn't
do, just because you missed the skill for
doing that. Python, for example. Or rather, even simpler,
the way in which you write. Because clearly, I mean, you listen to me,
no? My English is not perfect. So I write even roast than this. OK,
now I can write my paper. I can draft my paper at the level of top
90 in English department. So this is already something that helps A
lot. Okay, help you to catch up with the top
department that have several competent advantages apart from the quality of
faculties, but also in terms of time of the years
that they have to develop an idea and their paper and the quality of the paper
once they reach the job market. Okay, so these help you a lot,
this kind of tool. So don't... I mean, don't put a stigma on this.
Don't think that you can do better than the machine because this is not true at
all. You can control the machine, but probably machine will do better than
you. And so take advantage of this. OK, don't reject this ideologically,
I would say. as many people are doing in in the field,
I would say, especially those who before had this kind
of competitive advantage in terms of coding, in terms of resources,
and so on and so forth. This is another advantage, for example.
Here you have an army of your personal research assistant for
free. Okay, so something completely for free,
$20 per month. Okay, so you can really speed up your work,
even if you have fewer years to complete your PhD. You can really speed up stuff with the
with these tools, OK? While instead for senior researcher,
clearly this course is useful because help in some way to navigate better what
has to control, what has to be controlled at once they
use this kind of new tools. So,
let's start with some very basic concept vocabulary. What is an agent? OK,
before I talk about the work bot, actually an agent is not a smarter chat
bot. OK, it's a workflow in which the chat bot is
a core part, but is a only a part. embodied in an entire workflow in which
we have the LLM a starting point, which we ask to achieve and complete a
task. And to do that, the LLM essentially use tools, okay,
in order to implement Plan to achieve such goals that we put it
put to them. OK, so it's essentially a workflow with
partial autonomy. What differentiate a chatbot from an
agent? Well, the action is different. Chatbot just respond to your question,
while instead the agent act. Okay. The tools are optional for chatbot.
It can be used or not. I mean, it doesn't matter. too much for the answer that you received
from them, while they are central for agents.
This is the way in which they act using tools, your own tools, cloud tools,
whatever, okay? Files, you usually upload file to chatbot,
while instead the agent browse directly files on your laptop, OK,
or your computer. You really don't need to be instructed
where the file is, what the file is about. Okay,
the typical thing that I do when I start a new project, once I open,
I give access to a specific folder to my agent is just, okay,
now study the folder and understand what I was doing.
And it's simply by reading by itself the folder, it knows even better than me. what has been done up to that point. Okay.
Failure. I mean, with chatbot, the failure risk was pretty contained in
the sense that at most you receive a wrong answer.
If you have the skill to spot the wrongness of the answer,
it's easy to correct. Here is much more subtle. OK,
this is the problem for with agent is that they do the wrong action,
which can be then categorized in different kind of acting hallucination,
and we're going to discuss them later in this presentation.
Human role completely different, while for chatbot just a reader. Here is a controller,
a supervisor for Agent. And also the cost,
and this is probably the most important things that differentiate the two.
Chatbot almost don't consume token. I mean,
they are pretty much unlimited in their usage,
even with a higher level of intelligence. With urgent nodes,
they burn a lot of tokens. OK, and so one thing that you really need to
learn is how to make your workflow efficient in a way that try to avoid to
burn token as much as possible. OK, are we going to see something about later? and probably even better in the next
session with concrete case studies. So, let's see how typically an agent loop
works. For example, let's think about a very simple task,
which is we run table 2 and fix the missing standard error. So once you provide the agent with the
task, the agent observe the context that you
provide to him, or to it, I would say, to him, understand the context,
observe the context understanding, understand it.
Then it provides you with a plan of action. Okay,
so probably going to suggest you to run a regression to see where the standard
error are missing. Once they are spotted, essentially provide you with a possible
fix for for that missingness.
Once you approve the plan, it start to act. Okay,
so you will run the code, it will edit the code in the line in
which it generate this missingness in standard error, then rerun the new code,
then recreate the new table, And provide you with a new do file. OK,
which is 02 table to point to dot do. Then. Now is the step which you get into this
process. You have to verify what it did. OK, how? Well, essentially, if you plan,
if you did a good plan, you also ask to your agent to provide
some artifact that allow you to check what it did in a very fast way.
How? Well, essentially, for example, generating a log file, for example,
generating a report file in which it clearly state what has been done,
the line of code that has been changed. which code has been changed.
So you can easily go on your folder and go on the new do file,
see the specific line that has been changed and control that the change is
the right one. Okay. If this is not true, just start again. Okay. Also this very. Fication step could be done by the agent,
actually something that time. Recently start to do a lot because one,
I mean one I would say drawback of Agent is that they produce a lot of files. OK,
they produce a lot of files and if you don't order,
if you don't make to be ordered a. compulsory feature of your plan,
this number of file explodes and start to control and verify become very difficult
because it change a lot the name of the files, it start to create subfolders,
you don't know where are the original files and so on and so forth. Okay. So in some way,
especially for big project, this could be cumbersome,
the controlling step. So what you can do is,
or in some way in your rules, and now we're going to discuss what rules
are, you put that you need to maintain order
among the files. in order to making the controlling step
easier for the human. Or rather, you can use other agent to check what the
original agent did. And this is very, very useful,
especially if you want something that is not just a yes man. OK,
because this is another typical problem with the LLM in general,
but also with agentic AI. They try, they tend to tell you what you want to
wear. OK, and so essentially, if you ask to the same agent to review
his own work, probably he will not spot the error in
the work. Okay,
so what I typically do is just switching the model, I don't know, from GPT 5.
5 to Claudio and ask to Claudio to review what GPT 5.5 has done. No, no. You need token to do that.
So we're going to discuss the problem of token and plan later,
but essentially if you want to start to play around with this stuff,
I suggest you to start with whatever kind of agents, so Codex, Anthropic. Mmh. Mm-hmm. Depend on how you extract them in the
sense that the best practice here is try to change the the agent, the model. So,
for example, I use cursor now, which allow you to use many different
model, not just GPT, not just anthropic, not just Gini. you can use different ones.
So what typically I do is essentially doing something with Claudio and then
reviewing it with another model. But you can do the same in Claudio,
just extracting sub-agent, that in a parallel way,
do the same kind of work of the main orchestrator. Okay,
but typically the best practice of this for having a really good review of what
has been done is changing also the model. Okay. I will say, I will tell you this later,
but you will not use just one model here. I mean, for starting,
you're going to start by playing with Codex, Claudio,
but once you get the experience on this, trust on me that you're going to use a
different kind of model. together. For example, I use,
I had a moment of time in my life in which I use the big four all together,
Gini, Corsor, Anthropic, Codex. Simply because in some way I pay 20 EUR
for one, I pay another 20 EUR for another, I have something free from another. And so, in some way,
also to manage the tokens, I used the fourth. Now, I move in,
I move it to toward a more expensive plan on cursor, and I'm using just one model,
just one agent platform, then I use different model within the
same platform. Okay.
So you will not stay just with one model, especially if you start to embody these
tools in your research workflow very deeply. Okay. So essentially,
before the unit of delegation was just the answer to your prompt,
now the unit of delegation is a set of action that the agent take in order to
achieve the goal that you ask him to achieve. Okay. So what about context, token and memory,
which are something very important with Agentic AI. So what is the context? Well,
the context essentially is everything the model can see. So your chatting window,
all the information that you threw into the chat window is the context. Okay. You cannot throw into the window
everything up to the infinite. Okay, chat window and context are limited.
With time, these limitation are growing, I mean, are making wider and wider.
For example, the original chat GPT-4 had 8,000 token context. Now,
Gini has a 2 million token context. The bigger is the size of the context,
the more information you can throw into this more information, more idea,
more file you can give to the AI. This does not mean then that bigger
contexts are better than shorter contexts. This does not mean that more information
you provide to the AI batteries its performance. Okay. Many times,
many of you since I then I saw some of you Using this stuff,
you throw a lot of or use of, I would say, redundant information to the model to the
to the to the AI, for example. One thing that you, you, I mean,
one thing that people typically do is... Structuring the conversation,
as if the respondent would be a human, it is not a human. Don't say, "Ciao,
how is doing?" No, do this. OK, then another thing typically that people
does, which consume a lot of token. You give a prompt, it answer,
then something is wrong and several things are wrong.
You start from the first, you re-prompt the first mistake,
then it contests and correct the mistake, then you prompt the second mistake. and so on and so forth.
This consume a lot of token. Never do something like this.
When you receive the first answer, just look at what has been done and
collect all the mistakes in the same prompt and give it all together.
Because each time that you prompt something to the agent, it needs to read All the contest since the beginning,
reading the since the beginning, consume token. So many people that who I talk with,
they always complain about the fact, but this lasts me just, I don't know,
one day. I have this 20 EUR plan, it lasts me two days. Yes,
because you don't use it in the proper way. This is the problem. I had the 20 EUR plan for a while and I
achieved to do stuff for the entire month without getting out,
without going in over usage. So the way in which you modify the
context, the way in which you provide information
to the AI, is determinant for the way which you can
use it and the quality of stuff that you get from it. Okay.
And this brings us directly to the measure of consumption within this world,
which are the tokens. What are the tokens? Well,
essentially the tokens are the, but I think that most of you know how LLM
works, right? They essentially divide the prompt is
small part, which are called token, and essentially you read this big part,
this big, yeah, this small part in some way. predicting what is the next token. Okay,
so the more token they have to read, the more they consume. Okay. And then there is memory,
something that ChatGPT hasn't before. hadn't before.
Memory that can be essentially managed in different way.
We're going to look later on to common type of memory,
that is the rug and the knowledge base. But essentially memory,
what does is extending the context from one conversation to another. or from one agent to another agent,
or from one project to another project, or from one machine to another machine.
What does this mean? It means that you really don't need,
every time you start a conversation, to explain the agent what you want to do,
because he already knows. Okay. Then I'm going to show you how to set,
for example, a knowledge base. Probably you have heard that if you surf
on the internet, this second brain word, you know, probably. Essentially,
what does it mean? Essentially means creating a set,
an architecture of note in markdown, that your agent read before starting
anything. And this essentially helps the agent to
know where you are when you stop the last session, what has been done,
what are the errors that are being encountered, how it's solved. Those errors, and so on and so forth.
Without that, you explain it anything you already knows,
OK? No, skill is something different.
Skills are something that you repeat. I'm going to define them better later,
but it's something that has been done once, has been done good.
You like the way which has been done, and so you create something that can be
easily repeated by the agent. Simply by call it,
so you don't have to prompt the skill again.
He already knows how to do that task, because it's written in the skill,
but you have not to exaggerate with the use of skill,
because skill consume context, because if you have skill,
he charges skill at. teach session.
Second brain or memory is different. You have to ask it to read the brain and
read the memory. And so you just read, consuming token for reading,
but then you already knows. And probably the amount of token that you
have consuming, consuming for reading. Is a... a way lower than the re-prompting
everything since the from scratch. OK. So then we have tool permission and
sandbox. Most of people is concerned about,
but I have data that I don't want people know about,
that I don't want that model know about, I don't want training the model about my
data. These are ********, okay,
in the sense that our concern of people who never try to use this stuff,
because most of the model allow to opt out the use of your data for training the
model. You can establish a very strong permission hierarchies for
what can be done by the agent and what cannot. You really don't need to use,
for example, browser. One possible source of leak of your data
could be the fact that the agent connect to the browser to go to on internet. Okay,
but this is not true at all because you can use sandbox. What is sandbox?
Sandbox is a sort of box, okay, within the agent which is not your
browser, your computer. It is isolated from your computer.
It's just used by the agent for going on the internet. Indeed, many of the action that you take in your browser,
for example, downloading stuff on the downloading
folder and just pick, then the file cannot be done within the
sandbox, just because you don't have access to the
sandbox. Only the agent is in the sandbox. So the possibility that some... Somebody just getting to your laptop
through the agent going on internet is simply a no fact. OK,
because they can use a sandbox. Then you can also allow them to use the
normal browser as I do. And you can give them permission for all
the file in your laptop as I do. Otherwise,
when you start a project on Agent, you allow it to read just one folder.
And for any kind of thing that you need to do for achieving the task,
you ask permission. I can do this, you allow me to do this,
and you click on I allow, I don't allow. I can read this folder, allow, not allow.
And this is done essentially for everything if you set the option for
asking for everything. Clearly, what is the drawback of this?
That you lose a bit of the advantage of having an agent that do things
automatically. autonomously. Okay. And so for example,
I opt out of this stuff. I let the agent do and just ask me for
the most important things. Because otherwise it stop every while for
asking permission. Okay, depend on you, depend on how do you trust on it,
how many sensible stuff you have in your laptop, on your platform, yes. Mm. Yes,
and there is this opting this option for training.
If you really don't want to your data to be used for for training the model,
you can go on the option opting out

Mancusi Maria Luisa (marialuisa.mancusi)   40:16
Marco, sorry,
can you repeat the questions because we

Le Moglie Marco (marco.lemoglie)   40:16
simply. Yes.

Mancusi Maria Luisa (marialuisa.mancusi)   40:20
don't hear them?

Le Moglie Marco (marco.lemoglie)   40:21
He asked me if they are, I mean,
according to my experience, some of the option that need to be in
some way opted out or opted out for sure once you use this stuff.
And I suggest just to opt out for the option regarding in using your
data for training. That could be useful in the sense that
otherwise, I don't know, you have some idea for grant or something
like this. If you if the model use it to train
somebody else in the other part of the world asking a specific question. could in principle receive an answer with
connect with your idea. Okay, so in some way, this is the risk,
the main risk with respect to using your stuff for training. But I mean, I don't know how much this is likely to
happen. No, because I mean, at the beginning,
the review stage was a bit, was not so strong as such nowadays.
Nowadays, everything that is changed by the agent,
you can review it, you can just going back in time if you
don't like it. As I said before,
I let the agent going everywhere in my laptop. The only, I think,
the only thing that I do in order to avoid to be stolen from my bank account
is putting, I was usual to save my password of
everything in the notes. the block notes in my Mac.
Now I just move all the password in a specific app that make them reachable by
the agent without my permission. Is the only thing that I did.
For the rest, I just let it going everywhere in my laptop.
Also because this is the only manner to exploit as much as possible the
advantages of this tool. Because otherwise you have to still stay
in front of your laptop and giving permission for everything which is... Also,
because most of the time you really don't know what he's doing. OK,
he's changed a Python code in the folder of the, I don't know, I don't know Python,
so I cannot, I don't have neither the either the
ability to see if he is doing something wrong or not. So it's better to see the last,
the final result and judging that. Directly. Other question? You go on the menu,
there is an option for permission. No, no, just, just the option,
just the option. Then clearly, I mean, if you want,
you can also set this in your rules. We're going to discuss what rules are
there, but you can write explicitly in the rules
that you have to always check this before changing. I don't know, in Overleaf,
you do a specific mock-up. what you do on local and then once I
check it, you can move it to overleaf in order to
avoid, I don't know, changing in the version of your paper
that you send to, I don't know. Okay. So,
these are four layers of the autonomy spectrum that the agent has. Okay.
Suggest, this is typical also of chatbot. Essentially, you ask a question,
you do brainstorming with your agent, he suggests you something,
you refine what is suggested with... respect to what you know and so on and so
forth. Almost 0 autonomy here. OK. Then there is your review. So,
if you want your agent to do something and changing something, changing code,
changing file, you, you want to you make it making it out. autonomously,
you need also to set some kind of document that allow you to review what
has been done. In principle, this is not necessary because all kind of
platform, all kind of agent, once they change something,
they provide you with the previous code and the new code just in
the same file with a button for allowing or not to change.
And so you can just go on the code, see what has been changed with respect to
what was before. And if you are good with that,
you just approve. Okay. Then there is the execution. Here,
the control is much more tougher. Here, you need to instruct the agent for
creating some sort of file for reviewing stuff. So report or what has been done,
the tele report, log file, and so on and so forth.
And then there is the orchestration. This is probably the highest level of
risk in terms of autonomy in which essentially you have
an agent, an orchestrator, a main agent, with which you establish a plan,
and then this orchestrator called a sub-agent to implement the plan in an
independent way. Or also. consequentially. Okay. Here, and it's much more difficult to,
much more difficult, can be done clearly, but it's much more cumbersome,
the control part of what has been done. Okay. So these are, I mean,
I would say a set of typical problem with agents. Hallucination,
and then this can be different type of hallucination.
We're going to discuss them better later. The drift,
drift is due to change in the model. by the company.
And this is something that happens A lot. For example,
I start to use Gini for some advantage with respect to the other,
especially for managing this YouTube channel that I created. Then suddenly,
Google changed the pricing. policy.
And so Gini start to be much more expensive. And also with the updating,
there were several bugs that I had to fix by my own. Okay, and this happens. This is typically happens,
especially with the lowest level of proprietary model.
It's much more difficult to happen with Claudio, for example, with ChatGPT,
but it happens also with them. Okay. For example, a bug was that it stopped to.
.. wait for my approval of the plan.
It just provide me with the plan and I start without approval. Okay.
And so I had to go on internet looking within the forum about this problem.
Somebody fixed the problem. And so I just tell to the agent, okay,
go to this forum, read the solution to this problem and how
to fix you. and it fixes itself,
which is something that is much more easier than the older world, I would say,
in which you have to put your hands on the mud, I would say,
in order to fix the problem. Then there is automation bias. This is something that probably you're
going to experience at least once on your life with the agent in the sense that the
agent provides you with the final outcome. Many times this outcome is really good,
at least the appearance of this app, the way in which is framing this outcome
is really good. So, for example, in draft,
it writes quietly good. OK, but a good process is not a good outcome.
OK, and the same is also true for tables. OK,
so I extract the agent to download the data, run the regression,
and create a table and provide me at the end with this table. with all coefficient,
all the standard error, everything is good. Okay,
so the classical bias that you have is okay. I approve. It seems good.
It seems good. For sure it's good also the content.
Not at all. So you have to start back again going to
see. The data, if they are good,
then you have to check the code that they run, it see if seeing if, for example,
it put the right fixed effect or right cluster level,
and then see how this essentially reflect in the table that the agent is providing
you. Okay. The eye sloppiness.
This is something also quietly important, especially for writing.
They are very sloppy in the sense that they,
if you look at the text made by the AI, at the first glance, they look very good.
But then when you start to read, especially if you know, the content, okay,
that you ask for right to be written, you realize that is not so good. I mean,
the form is good, but the content is not good.
Then nowadays, there are tools that allow you to reduce
at the minimum. this AI sloppiness.
These are tools that your agent could charge once you start a new session of
writing, for example. For example, once he write the text at the end of
writing, essentially review the text. try to eliminate all the classical EI
marker. For example, the double line, for example,
the connector at the beginning of the sentences, which are typical of EI. OK.
Essentially, try to go much deeply into the content
instead to remain superficial,
and so on and so forth. There are several tools that allow you to
reduce as much as possible these EI slopeness.
Then there is the reward taking, that is the agent find a solution which
in some way satisfy the metric that you want to to estimate, for example,
but then defeat the goal. You cannot in some way achieve the goal
that you impose to the agent. And finally, probably this is the worst one.
And as like as the automation bias is something which is such subtle, That is difficult to spot. This encompassy,
the eye tell you what you want to hear. So the typical thing that people do is,
OK, this is my paper. I want to submit this paper to this
journal. Could you please do a review as could you
please act as a review tool and do a review of this paper before the
submission? So what the agent does is essentially a
several point, as like a review would have done,
and then you start to tell him, this point doesn't seem to me really
important because I do this, I do this. Then the EI will not act. like a reviewer which will send you back
another RAR, secondary RAR telling you didn't convince
to miss me too much with this argumentation.
I think that there is still a problem. No, the AI what we'll do is essentially, oh,
you are right, this comment, this argument completely address my
comment. It's something that happens A lot. Okay.
So you have to be a lot aware of this also because this is not a bias of AI per
se. This is a bias of you. Is that your cognitive bias,
as like as the automation bias. Is your bias, not the AI bias. Okay. Okay,
let's move to the interfaces for using Agent. Essentially,
we have 4 categories of interfaces at the moment. They overlap A lot.
You can use any of them interchangeably, I would say. The most easy, I would say,
gate for using The agent is using your chat window,
the chat GPT windows, if you go. On the on this stuff here,
you have a different way for using the ChatGPT in Dip search mode, in agent mode. Okay,
the agent mode is essentially doing the same thing that an agent will do your
laptop. The only difference is that it is on
cloud. So unless you give them access
specifically to a specific folder of your laptop, it cannot do that. Okay. The second,
I mean, this is, I would say, an intermediate layer that is very useful
for research workflow, but probably is used people outside
research. Don't exploit too much,
which is the research browser. There are specific AI made for literature
review. Okay, I use a lot it, for example, because always in the idea of saving
tokens, I don't do everything with the agent
because I let the agent doing their stuff. So, for example, brainstorming,
I don't do brainstorming with the agent. I go to ChatGPT,
I brainstorm with ChatGPT, which is almost free,
also with the highest level of intelligence.
Once the brainstorm has been done, I ask to ChatGPT to create a prompt to
give to the agent to implement a specific plan. The same is true with the Literal review, for example,
I don't use the agent for doing literal review, just useless. consumption of token.
I go to notebook LM of Google. OK, and ask it to find me all the literature
in economics, top journal, top field about a specific topic.
Then I start to chat with it in order to organize it according to my idea,
according to my paper. And once it has been done,
I ask him to provide me a file of bibliography and a prompt and also a text
that I can easily incorporate directly in my paper. Okay, yes. Mhm. Absolutely, absolutely. But you have,
I mean, the way to use this stuff is getting the
little from them and then work a bit on that. They are very useful,
especially for one thing, in the sense that they can provide you with a table in
which essentially it sums up the main content,
the main result of each specific paper, and help you to connect them together.
So it's a way to do brainstorming or literature review. And once you have satisfied with this
brainstorming, then you move to the agent or you move
directly. Most of the time I need to pass through
the agent to the literal review. I essentially copy and paste directly on
the paper. OK. I prefer not book LM because it's much
more precise because you can start from specific paper that you provide it with.
You just upload the paper. And so there is no hallucination there.
You just read the paper. And then from that,
they can find something else outside the paper by zone. Okay, so this is what typically I do,
what typically I do for literature review. But this is very good, for example,
for triage stuff. So connecting stuff, seeing what are the, you know, What a paper contradict over another
paper, so you can chat very easily with the with
the CI and help you to write down a very good literature review. These are also good for making slides. For example,
you really need to include a paper in your class about public economics
regarding, I don't know, the some rules. OK,
you don't have time to write a slide or create a slide. Essentially you upload the paper to
notebook LM, start to chat with him about what you
want from that paper on the slide that you have just an overview slide.
You click on that in 10 minutes you have the slide ready. OK. But also that if you don't want him to
make the slide, he can provide you with the LaTeX. code that you can modify by your own once
you have. Then the ID agent. What is an ID agent? Well,
the ID is essentially something like this. It's an app in which you have the entire
structure of your folder on the left side of the app,
so you can control the file generated or the version. you can review easily all the file while
in this instead on the right hand you have the classical chat window that you
have also in the chat bot. And this central part instead is used for
previewing every file. So here you can directly see the Stata
code and modify it. You can see major adding a comment to the
major and telling to the into the chat that you have to look at the comment in
the image and implement it as a change, whatever. This is clearly. much more flexible in terms of what you
can do and what you can control with only one app, okay,
with respect to the chat window online. Moreover, this is all entirely local.
So essentially, this is on your laptop, read your file,
you don't need to upload anything. And so it's very good. And finally, there is, I mean,
the most expertise, I would say, way to interface this agent,
which are the CLI terminal window. Essentially,
you run your agent directly in your terminal. What are the advantage? I mean,
disadvantage is that it doesn't require really to know coding,
because essentially when you start the codex or code on your terminal,
you get a sort of chat window directly your terminal,
so you can write in natural language or whatever are. your request there.
You have much less control what has been done because the CLI,
the terminal don't provide you each time the file that has been modified with the
line in which these. modification has been done and so on and
so forth. But the very advantage of this stuff with
respect to all the other interfaces that it consume much less, much fewer token,
because it does not need to have all the conversation recorded inside all the
project and the structure of the project recorded and show it in the. In the interface. At the moment, sir. Essentially,
what this word is going to where there is essentially using this agent app. that you can download from the website of
the provider, which essentially are mixing all the
advantage of the IDE and the terminal interface with the facility in terms of
usage interface. of the classical chat window. This is,
for example, from Codex, my Codex. You can see here that on the left side,
I have all the project that I'm working on. Here you have the chat window, okay,
with what has been done, the file that he created. what can be reviewed,
what has to be reviewed, what need to be approved,
then there is also... Here. allow you essentially to do the same
thing that you do with the IDE. So essentially going through the
structure of the folder, reviewing line by line each file and so
on and so forth. This is the future. Okay, so if you want to start to play around
with this stuff, what I suggest you is to Download the the agent app from the
provider, so the codex or the cloud code app and
using it. What? What is the disadvantage of this?
This consume a lot of token with respect to CLI and for automation is much more
difficult. OK, consume a lot of token. Why? essentially because it need to keep in
memory of the structure, of the conversation,
and so on and so forth. Okay, so this consume tokens. But it's much more flexible in order to
review stuff, because you see, I mean, you see directly the file, otherwise,
for with the terminal the CLE interface, you need to go in the folder,
open the file, and see what has been done, and so on and so forth. This is the typical terminal interface by
Claudio, but there is also the app for Claudio
Code. Okay. Then a possible, I mean,
this is probably actually the next future for who use this stuff daily and in a
very intensive way, create your local agent. Why is it good? Well,
essentially because it's cheaper. So if you create your own agent locally,
essentially you don't have to pay anybody. You can do everything you want,
then is my is private. Nothing leave your laptop. OK, without opting out anything. What are the disadvantage? It's costly. costly because the G-Force,
the RAM now is skyrocketing due to the AI. And so if you want to install, I mean,
now Google, for example, did this Gamma 4 with just 7 billions of
parameter that could be easily run on the laptop. but you need a video, SCADA video,
I don't know how to say in English, the minimum SCADA video for running
something like this is like 2000, 3000 of EUR. OK, but then I mean, it's an investment.
You save a lot of money in subscription, for example. For example,
I pay 60 EUR each month. In 2 years, I recovered the entirely the cost of the
of the of the scalar video. And it's very easy to train.
Don't think that training this model is difficult. It's very easy, very,
very easy. I mean, there are out there data set made
explicitly for training these models. OK, in writing, in coding. in generating images and so on and so
forth. Okay, you can really personalize a lot the type
of model that you want to train, especially if you want a model that is
specific for research workflow, you can train it only on research
workflow, the workflow and task. Typically of research workflow. OK,
what are the disadvantage? They are not frontier model,
so I mean you are they require constantly to be managed, updated,
and so on and so forth. They will probably you will never reach
the sophistication of frontier model by. Uh, entropic and so on and so forth. OK,
so probably you will not never be able to train a Fable 5 and Mitos or a GPT 5.6.
OK, but still they are very useful, especially if you want to automatize a
lot of stuff because they don't consume essentially. Any talking? So these are the four, the big four,
if you want to start to play with, actually there are plenty of new AI
coming out each day. The Chinese ones are very good at the
moment, and they are much cheaper than the
American one, for example, GLM. 5.2, Dip Seek, Kimi,
these are all Chinese model which are very good.
Now there is also this Japanese, which is very,
very good because essentially what it does is essentially an orchestrator agent
which use other agent to run task. And in this manner could make the entire
distribution of the task more efficient, it achieved the same performance of Fable
5, for example. It's called Suguka Fuka, typical name from Japanese land.
So I suggest to start with the codex also because if you are Ping now the Chat GPT plan with Catoriga.
Without Catoriga, you have already Codex inside,
you just have to download the app and install it on your laptop,
and probably you will be already usual with the entire, you know,
interface because it's very similar to the Chat GPT. the window of online.
The best one for sure is anthropic at the moment,
especially for coding and for long tasking, for long task.
I would avoid Google. Personally, it's terrible. I mean,
it was good at the beginning, but it's full of bugs. I don't know why,
because Google actually should rely on the biggest knowledge base in the world,
given what has done so far with search engineers and so on. What is very useful is Cursor.
It's not a specific model, but you can use different model within
the same interface. They also have their own model,
the default model, which is Composer 2.5, which is good at the moment.
I'm using Cursor right now, actually, because with the 60 plan, I can almost do everything during the
entire month, also using a very high model like Opus 4.
8 by Claude, by entropic within the course or ChatGPTI
and so on and so forth. So... The idea, as I said,
as I suggested at the beginning, is not using agent for everything,
because would not the best way to make your consumption of token efficient,
but depending on the task, using different model or different type
of agent. OK, for example, as I say, thinking, writing, a light analysis, Don't use agent,
don't watch token on that. Go on ChatGPT and use ChatGPT. OK,
source discovery, evidence triage. Don't use agent, use notebook perplexity,
elicit, whatever. There are AI out there made explicitly
for doing this stuff. Coding replication, table generation. I mean,
here I put ID agent because are the best in terms of reviewing because you see
directly the file out they have been modified and so on and so forth.
But the moment you can use and also the, I know,
Codex Agent app or code code app and so on and so forth.
There is really no longer a difference between ID Agent app or terminal interface. Nowadays also with the app,
because they implemented this right-hand menu that you just open,
you see exactly the same structure that you see in the ID on the left side.
So before there wasn't that the reason, because most of people still use the ID.
I use it, I start this stuff using the ID. Because much easier to see what is doing. OK, then I mean,
if you need a very long pipeline automation,
probably the CLI interface is better because it consumer fewer token. OK,
but you are really need to be. 100% sure of the automation, the pipeline,
because they start and then it's difficult to review on during the work
what is doing. Why instead the sensitive data of full
reproducibility, probably the local model are the best one,
but also here it depends because. For example,
we have this property data with Diogo. I mean, you don't know Diogo is,
but they have this sensitive data from Brazil.
And since we cannot use property AI there, we have constructed a local AI within the
server in which this data stored. A stored, and we are using the local E.I.
for the analysis on the on on on those data. Cost. Well,
essentially here we have two words, or subscription or method usage.
If you never use an agent, start with the lowest level subscription,
typically it's 20 EUR, $20 for all companies.
Then if you need more, There are bigger planner. If you have money to spend,
what I suggest is making the max plan with Anthropic is 200 EUR per month,
but essentially is almost a limited. If you use by your own,
is a limited because difficult that you burn all the token that give you this
kind of plan. I understand that 200 EUR per month is a
big amount of money. Indeed, I would never suggest to start with this
kind of plan. Only once you really get into this stuff,
you embodied a lot of this stuff in your workflow,
probably it makes sense to switch to higher plan. I tried to coordinate with people in
order to pay the plan in four people, even if it is illegal. I couldn't,
and so the best solution that I found is moving to Cursor,
who was this very good plan for 60 EUR per month. Otherwise, for example,
Google Gini has also a plan of 50 EUR. Codex, the max, GPT,
the max plan is 90 EUR per month, so the half of the max by entropic,
depend on what you really need. Okay. Mhm. Mhm. Mhm, mhm. Mmh. Bing. Why? But if everything remains local,
that's not possible. No. Memory. You have to set the memory to the agent.
I work on this. I work on the same folder with different
agent on Dropbox. My folder are all on Dropbox. Okay.
And you use different agent and some of my coder use other agent on the same
folder. The only thing that you have to set is a
memory. A memory which allow you to move what you
are doing with one agent to another agent. Yes, you could.
When you set your knowledge base, one of the documents that you set up for
your project are what has been done, decision, and or next stop, next step.
Essentially, each time the agent does something,
it record this in markdown file. And so the next agent just read this
markdown file and know what has been done. Okay. And so how to be,
we're going to see the next time, okay, how to set something like this. Is there,
I mean, we're going to discuss now the difference
between the two may use a type of memory which are lag and knowledge base. I. personally prefer knowledge based, okay,
in which you can also directly edit the notes and the markdown by your own
without letting, if you see that something is written that
you don't like, like doing this stuff when you don't want
to do this stuff or next time that you open the session,
you just go in your note and by your own, you change the note. Okay. One possible option that you have to opt
out when you open the app or whatever is the fact to avoid extra usage. Okay,
so if you start with the plan of 20 EUR plan,
probably you get out of the plan in a while,
especially at the beginning because you are not familiar to how manage to avoid consume
too much token. And so what I strongly suggest you is
going in the menu option and there is a specific option that avoid the agent to
consume extra token out of the plan. The otherwise make you pay, OK?
And then you don't want to pay. Another thing to do is to say that
unlimited does not exist for agent. There is no plan that is really unlimited.
With Fable 5, you probably consume an entire max plan,
the 200 EUR max plan by Anthropic in one week. just because it consume a lot of token.
It's very good at doing things, it does things very, I mean, very well.
Probably you really don't need needed to review them,
but it consume a lot of token. We're talking about millions of tokens
for each call. Okay. They consume a lot of token with respect
to a chat bot, essentially because while for a chat bot,
the token are consumed just for reading the prompt and answering you.
Here you have different step in which token are consumed. OK, so the context,
the call for the tool, the retries. OK. And then also there is there are
differences in the policy of each company in terms of token price. For example,
Google, I use it for a while, Gini, because typically how this consumption of
token works. You have two kind of limits. hour limit and a weekly limit. OK,
so each app has this value that you can see in a specific bar.
So the hour limit is a limit an amount of token that the regenerate each five hours, each six hours. Okay.
Each time that you regenerate this daily limit,
a part of the weekly limit is consumed, of the monthly limit is consumed. Okay.
So you can repeat this up to the point in which the weekly limit is over. Okay, when the weekly limit is over,
even if you are still having some token in the hour daily limit,
you cannot use it. K. Perfect, so I use it at the beginning,
Gini, because Gini has this default, clearly the default model consume less
token than the best model. OK, Gini has this Gini Pro Flash 3.5,
which was a very good default model to doing to do. Mostly of the stuff that I need to do,
like manage the YouTube channel, sending the newsletter,
all this kind of stuff that consume, they don't require too much intelligence.
OK, then from one day to the other, essentially they change the pricing,
they they triplicate the. cost of each token.
And so essentially also with the same model, with the same code,
with the same task from day one day to the other,
I completely consume different amount of token.
And this is true for all the companies, all the private models, okay? The only way to avoid this stuff is using
your local AI, okay? So how to save money here? Well,
essentially try to use the agent as less as possible. Use it only for hard stuff,
only when they really need to be used. When you use agent,
don't use the best model for everything. Some of these allow you for automatic
location of the task depending on the difficulty of the task that the AI
understand by its own and it allocates. Otherwise,
what I typically suggest is use the best model for planning,
the most intelligent model for planning when the plan be written down the implementation.
Let's do the implementation to more stupid model because it has just to fall
off the plan. There is no intelligence there. OK,
then avoid the 1000 thousand of prompt different prompt. Put all together. OK,
the request. Don't separate in different prompt.
This allow you to save a lot of token. Use some tool that allow you to create
memory. Memory. Consume token once you and you once once
you have to create it at the beginning, but when you have created it,
you have just to recall it and that could save you a lot of token because instead
of re-prompting every time what you need, it just read the specific file that it
needs to. Complete the task. Okay. For example, this is just some. case of using in terms of token.
Chat question are very cheap. Okay. Less than 1000 of token.
Replicate section 4 end to end, which is something good to be done by the,
I mean, something that I will. Let the agent do,
because it save you a lot of time. This consume million of token. OK,
so try to stay only with task that really need agent implementation. OK,
don't wash token around. Token will become your nightmare once you
start to embody this stuff in your workflow. I mean,
the day in which I'm not talking, I don't do anything. Not really.
For example, if I arrive up today up to the renovation
of the plan of the weekly plan, In those two days,
I do something for my family. I go to the doctor,
I do all the things that, you know, because I then, I mean, I just saved,
I saved so much time, so much time using the agent that I can
take someday free, you know. And waiting for coming back of the agent. Another thing that I suggest you,
don't spend the, I mean, this tool has made for freeing you from
being in front of a screen. Don't do as like as what you do with
Stata. That is, you run a command and you stay in front
of the screen and waiting in the end of the command.
This is not the way to use this stuff. The way to use this stuff is launching
the agent, let him doing what he need to do,
in the meanwhile doing anything else. Answer email, writing a report,
reading a paper, cleaning, wash, make something in your place,
going to take a coffee, doing anything else,
because otherwise you are not exploiting the advantage of this stuff. which is freeing time.
This is the advantage. Freeing a lot of time that allow you to
make more things. At the beginning,
you will feel like you work less. Actually, you are working much,
much more than before agent, because what you spent before one day,
one month, one year to do now can be done in a
second, in a day. In a week. We're gonna see some case from my
workflow in the next session constructing testing an idea.
Today I had an idea on this possible research project from having the idea to
testing the. Validity of that idea with the data
regression is a matter of hours, not day nowadays, hours. When the kids are sleeping,
you can really do what typically would have been done in a week.
So this is really the game changing of this stuff. It's freeing your time.
And so don't waste your time, which has be freed in front of your lap. Stop waiting for the response of the
agent. This is not the way which the the the
stuff could be used. So, it trained on my data? Well,
essentially, I don't know, in the sense that with the default plan,
with the Gradis plan, with the free plan, you cannot opting out the training stuff.
You can opting out once you start to pay. But actually, you really don't know,
never know 100% that they don't use your data to train,
especially if you use a lot of external tool.
You make a lot of API goal or something like this. So what I suggest is try to be To generalize your workflow in order to
not have this problem at all, in the sense that try to keep out from
the agent what cannot be shared at all, like private data or sensible data or
something like this, anonymize everything else. And some way. Try to keep safe your workflow before to
throw it into the agent. This is my suggestion. I think that this is something that we
can easily skip. Good practice, set a budget for each project. With the 20 EUR plan,
essentially you will run out of token very fastly and probably if you want to
still using the agent, you need to turn to extra usage.
So they paid usage. You can set the limit of the usage. Three EUR, 4 EUR,
5 EUR seems very small amount, but you can do a lot of things with the
two EUR, for example. For example, now I had to rerun no CR procedure for
thousands of pages. PDF page from Spanish Chances of 1940,
so value. Badly digitalized. OK,
instead of use my agent with my plan, which I've burned a lot of token,
what I've done is essentially setting 3 euros of budget on Gini API and setting
an API key from this Gini account. giving this API K to my agent.
So the agent instead of burning its own token from the plan,
it just used these two EUR, 3 EUR that I put in the Gini Cloud API.
And with two EUR, 3 EUR and alpha is essentially did a perfect OCR vision for the
thousands of pages that I need. Okay, so a good practice is set the budget for
your plan, especially if you use the 20 EUR plan.
And then for containment, use sandbox. At least at the beginning,
ask the permission for everything, which I put the condition of asking
permission for everything, just to get usual of what kind of request
the agent do, then you can relax it a bit. There is also an intermediate level of
permission. There is no... or permission or never permission.
There are also different kind of permission that you can set.
So permission only for reading something, only for using specific tool. Also,
specific tool can be allowed or not, or ask or requiring permission or not.
Okay, so just playing around with the option in
the menu. So, control.
This is the most important thing when you use Agent.
You have to control what they do. Well, while for ChatGPT,
we have essentially only content hallucination,
essentially answering something that does not exist or citation that do not exist.
At the moment, this is almost, it's very difficult to find something
like this. I mean, even if you use ChatGPT, Nowadays, there is no more. citation, hallucination,
or something like this. It's very difficult to encounter
something like this with ChatGPT at the moment. But for Agent,
there are several other kind of hallucinations. Okay. Code hallucination. Essentially,
it return you a result, a table, but essentially it implemented the wrong
code. For example, use different cluster variable that with
respect to those that you ask for or different fixed effect. Okay,
so you have to review the code to see what has been done.
Statistical hallucination. The same good syntax,
but then the specification is not the right one. OK, workflow hallucination.
This is the the worst one. When the agent tell you that has done
something but actually didn't. It happens. It happens A lot. Okay.
So you have to check if everything has been done actually. Okay. Why is the most dangerous? Well,
because if you are confident that something has been done, then it is not.
You go ahead, you spend talking ahead for something
that actually has no base. OK, so. Control is also for you in terms of
spending token, because if something has been done
wrongly, then you have to come back here. You have already spent token for doing
the wrong things, and then you have also to come back to
fix the problem. Okay, so is a overspending with respect to what
could be done if... the control is carry on in a proper way. So automation bias,
humans systematically overtrust automated output. The smoother,
the more confident the output is, the higher is the likelihood of this bias.
The output are very smoother and very confident, especially drafting. Okay. What is look like in practice?
Essentially accepting a regression specification without checking the code.
I did it. normal to do something like this because
you don't have time, you want the table already done. I did it,
then I paid the consequence of this

Colombo Ferdinando   1:34:03
Yeah.

Le Moglie Marco (marco.lemoglie)   1:34:03
because I had to come back.
Copy pasting literature without checking the existence of the reference.
This is much more limited nowadays because They are losing it much less than before,
or skipping test because the agent already test the result. OK. Polish it pros is not validated reasoning. This essentially bring us to say that
control cannot be something that you do sometimes.
Control need to be a specific slot in your workflow.
And this slot can be achieved by prompting the agent in a way that make
compulsory the control stage. in every stage. Okay, for example,
test with respect to a specific specification to see if the specification
change a lot, changing some part of the specification.
The difference with respect to what was before The implementation of the action by the
agent, and so you have to you need to be able to
revise what was before with respect to

Colombo Ferdinando   1:35:19
S.

Le Moglie Marco (marco.lemoglie)   1:35:20
what is now.
This is something that most of the interfaces do for you,
because provide you with the part. of the file which has been modified and
the part of the file which was, I mean, the preview,
how was modified and how was before the modification.

Colombo Ferdinando   1:35:39
Yes.

Le Moglie Marco (marco.lemoglie)   1:35:40
Logs, generate always logs.
For command running, generate logs. For analysis,
generate report in tech that you can easily read.
Specifying the agent to put the code user for generating the specific table.
What is the interpretation of this specific table? What is the ratio that it used for doing
that specific analysis? They are much more easier to control than
going file by file. Okay. So generate and tell the agent to
generate this stuff. Okay. And then clearly a general review process
that can be done by the human, by yourself or by other agents. Okay. When not use an agent, I mean. This is a weekly suggestion we're not
using an agent, okay, in the sense that identification. Clearly, you don't have to use agent,
but you can use agent to brainstorm about identification. OK,
but then the last decision of the type of identification to implement and that need
to rest on you. OK. Confidential data here depend on how much
confidential this data are. OK, and so the policy in terms of
confidential usage of this data. Final claims,
this is something that you have to do. I mean,
you can use a lot of the agent to draft the paper and reduce the time dramatically.
But then when you do some claim in your draft,
you have to review it very carefully by your own,
because there is where the classier is loopness exists. OK, there is. The AI is not good at making claims,
especially well-founded claims, OK? What does it mean? Well, essentially,
you have a section which you start with some assumption,
then you want to test this assumption through the analysis that you provide in
the section and draw some conclusion from that result and that analysis. In that case. The drafting by the eye is good in the
sense that the process is good, but then it does not connect very well
the flow in the section up to the conclusion,
the claim that you do in the conclusion. So we have to always to review the
drafting, even if you can use it to draft, I mean, at least the first draft. Okay. Replication package,
they are very good at doing that, but clearly you have to review before to
send them out, but they are very, very good at doing that. OK,
so use it in replicate in generating replication package.
And don't using them for avoiding conflict with your author,
just providing them with some result that your AI have generated and telling him. Look,
the I provide the confirmation of what I'm telling you. This is not good to do.
Okay, also because there is syncopacy in the I
agent as like us in the chat bot. They tend to tell you what you want to
wear. So,
these bring us directly to the so-called alignment problem. OK,
there is a general alignment problem with the AI world in the sense that,
at the moment, we have decided to developing to develop
the AI in a way in which we I mean,
the companies just throw out a new model each week without thinking about the
alignment between this model and humanity. This is very problematic because if
really we achieve some point of time, the general intelligence,
artificial intelligence, probably day one of the AGI will kill the entire
humanity. Okay? But this is another problem. In our world,
the local alignment means essentially that... What is good for AI is not... Good of me not to be good also for has as
researchers. A good code does not mean. a good identification or a good result in
terms of what you are, your research program, your research work. A table which is good at look at,
not to be. Consistent in the content with respect to
what you want to show. OK, so. You try,
you have to try to align the skill, the very good skill of the agent to your
own goal in each prompt, in each rule, in each knowledge base.
They need to align, to be aligned to your scope, your goal. Don't do prompt like fix this table and
let the agent do that, doing that. OK, but specifically do a prompt that
specifically tell the agent that the way in which you want to fix the table. OK. why you think that this table need to be
fixed and so on and so forth. Okay, this means aligning your scope with the
EI in each prompt, with the agent in each prompt. Argentic architecture - how the agents
work? OK, so far we have said that chatbots are
different from Argent Pro, but why? Well, essentially,
the big difference apart from token consuming is the fact that the agent has
rules. What are rules?
Rules are prompt that remain. A prompt that you have not to prompt
again. The agent already and autonomously read
once the session start. What are these rules? Well, for example,
in the rules, you can put the project style or the
convention. the naming of the structure of the
citation format or the way in which you want the table or the regression to be
run and produce it. You can put into what you want the agent
to do or not to do. For example, so the description of result without
approval by by the human, so on and so forth.
Or you can prompt, you can write the verification stage and
so essentially without telling the agent each time you have to review this stuff
in this manner, blah blah blah. It would do it automatically by simply
reading the rule. the original rule. What are these rules?
A markdown file, markdown is a way to write a note in
which you can essentially also, is a text file in which essentially you
can also put some degree of importance to a specific part of the text file. You can create a list,
you can create bullet point, you essentially create all that in the
information contained within the text file. Typically,
you have one rule file in the main route of your project,
which is called All Agent MD, Code MD, rules MD,
I strongly suggest you to maintain only one rule file.
Don't create a lot of rule files because otherwise this generate ambiguosity when
the agent read this kind of file. Okay, it's much better instead to create and
maintain a knowledge base. Apart from the specific rule file in each
project, the rule base can be essentially cooler
once you need it, while instead this is read automatically
when the session start. OK, so this start to burn your token even if
you didn't prompt anything. Yes. You have a question? No. Ugh. So don't do a lot of rules file within
your project. Just keep one very simple, very schematic. Don't write a lot.
As always, these are not humans. They don't need the subordinates,
subordinates, subordinates. Just bullet point is enough. If you really need to create memory,
create some skill, create some procedure, hook loops,
don't put them in the rule file, but rather generate a knowledge base that
can be called each time that you need it. but it does not,
it is not charged your session once the session start automatically,
because otherwise you start to burn token without prompting. Okay,
the same for skill. Skill is something with the connector MCP
that we're going to use, we're going to discuss now. Don't use too much skill,
at least in your project. Don't put your skill in your project,
put your skill in your knowledge base, in your memory,
because in this manner you can recall the skill once you need,
but it is not recall automatically once the session start, which consume token.
OK. Mm. So, memory as a layer here,
you can create different kind of memories. OK,
you really need the external tool to create memories. Agent, as like chatbot,
has not haven't memories per se. Even in the same project within different
conversation, they don't remember. Okay,
so you need to create a memory. You can create different layer of memory.
Clearly, I mean, memory we did the same conversation,
remain, you don't need any external tool. Simply it remember what has been said in
previously in the conversation. Between project,
you need to create some memory, so here... I mean. This is valid for project persistency and
graph. You need some external tool to create
this memory. You can create this memory using
repository, GitHub, for example. Each time you end a session,
you do a push or a commitment to your specific repository in GitHub.
And so the repository in GitHub reflects. the last session that you did.
And then if you need to start again, you simply, at the next session,
ask the agent to read your repository. That's it.
The easiest way to create memory. The best way to create memory,
also because this is local, so your notes, your information. doesn't go out of your laptop is using a
knowledge base. There are plenty of app out there for
creating a knowledge base, a second brain. The most useful, I mean,
the one that I found most useful is Obsidian, okay,
that help you to create these notes. to interconnect this note in a graph.
And so, it's not just having all your information
in one place that the agent can read, but the agent is going to read only the
needed information because the notes are connected to each other.
And the same is true also with the graph. because Obsidian allow you to create a
graph among this information. So essentially, also among the code,
instead of reading all the Python that you need for doing a specific task,
once you need a change in the task related to a really tiny difference in your code.
It doesn't need to read the entire set of code that you have that consume token.
You just have this graph connecting each code with each other,
and he already knows the code that he need to read.
And the same is true with information, with the notes. in your vault. OK, so use external memory.
This is game changing with the agent because, for example.
Today I have everything in my laptop. Tomorrow I left my laptop on my home and
I had the place of coder without my laptop. How can I recover my agent?
It's a big problem. I could not in principle.
But I have my knowledge base, which is on Dropbox,
which has a tool that allows me to access it in another laptop, in another computer.
I simply log in in in Dropbox. I log in my agent, my application,
agent application in the laptop of my code,
and I can easily recover what has been done in my laptop,
even if I don't have it. K. Then I'm going to show you next time a
possible structure, efficient structure for creating such a
sort of memory. Essentially,
we have two kind of way to construct memory, rag and the knowledge base. Rag,
essentially what the agent does is chunking the conversation and the main
point of conversation in specific small part that he recall each time he need. Okay. The advantage of this is very scalable,
especially if you have a lot of file, a lot of code,
this is not exploding because for each file,
each code is essentially just generate some chunk of the code, some chunk of the of the file that essentially store in a
vector database and recall easily once in need. What is the disadvantage?
This is a black box. You cannot do anything on the vector
database. Essentially, you don't know how the chunk is done by
the agent. You don't know actually if the chunking the right part of the
conversation, the silent part of the conversation.
So also the recovery of the memory is not stable. Sometimes it works as you want,
sometimes not. Okay. The other way instead,
that it's the one that I use, actually is the knowledge base.
This is a sort of folder in which there are many notes written in markdown file.
Each note is connected to each other, so you can search Also, with the specific key,
with the specific key, I hope across each note,
you can manage directly your note by your own, modify what you need to modify.
You can throw into the note PDF, image, video.
It will create a markdown starting from the PDF. It can compare content of each note where they
contrast when they instead say the same things is much more flexible in terms of
management of your knowledge. What is the downside of this?
You need to keep order a lot, okay, because if you start to throw everything
you have in mind of this vote,
it explode and they can generate much more consumption than without it. Okay,
in terms of talking. The best thing to do is essentially a mix
of the two. So having this knowledge base at the
level of single project with a rag, which is over the whole project.
So essentially using the rag to call specific memory, specific project. within each session,
but then within each project, the memory is generated with the
knowledge base. In this manner, it's much easier to keep order in the
knowledge base, because essentially you have to keep
order only within each specific project, and the rag help you to manage the fact
that you could have hundreds of projects open.
Okay. What I use in my knowledge base, I install several tools within the one
advantage of the knowledge base that you can also install plug in and the tools
within the knowledge base that help you to manage the knowledge base itself. For example,
I have a tool which is called Memento, which essentially from in an autonomous
way, from each conversation, when some decision is taken,
when some action, important action is taken,
essentially create a memory of that decision and that action that can be easily recalled by the agent this time
that we face the same kind of task of problem. Then I have a code graph,
which is a tool that essentially creates a graph from all the code that I have in
the project. In this manner, as I said before,
it doesn't need the agent to read all the code within the project,
but only specifically the code which are connected each other. Okay.
Then I have another tool which helped me to save the entire conversation at the
end of each session and transform it in markdown at the end of the session.
And so create this markdown. file in the vault that essentially sum up
the best, the most important part of each
conversation. Okay, but then you can add any kind of other
tool to this knowledge base in order to make it easier to surf and search for you,
but also for the agenda that use it. Then,
the way in which the agent used the tool, there are essentially 3 manners. OK,
the API that most of you already know, it's just a call to the endpoint of the
tool online, is the way to connect to the tool which... is less consuming in terms of token
because you need to call to make the call of the app.
You need to ask the agent to do this call. Uhh. And so, and moreover, you have, I mean,
you can miss, you can select very precisely what to
send and what to ask to the API. Then there is the CLI.
This is a bash command. It is a command that is run on your
terminal. Each time that you need it, take this command, the agent,
open the terminal and run the command. Clearly,
you cannot select very easily what to send and what to receive. is much more consuming in terms of token
than the API, but it consume a way fewer token than the
last type of connector, which is the server MCP.
This is the way which nowadays most of the agent talk with the internet. Okay,
but also with the other tools, for example, Stata. For using Stata with your agent,
you need to allow for the state MCP connector,
and this allows the agent to run Stata, otherwise it cannot. OK,
essentially is the way in which the tool is exposed to the agent. is much more precise, is much more,
I mean, much more thing can be done through MCP
with respect to the simple API. The API, for example,
depend which kind of endpoint the company or the tool expose.
You cannot do anything, everything with the API.
With MCP is like you. running the tool. Okay,
so you can do everything. What is the problem? This is like skill.
If you have the MCP activated in your agent, once you open the session,
it starts to consume token. Okay, so you should avoid to use MCP. as much as you can. You can use CLI.
There is an app that allow you to create a CLI for any kind of tool or any kind of
web page that you need. Also the one that they don't have their
own MCP or their own CLI, okay, which is printing press is called.
I'm gonna give you the. the link in the next session. Then there is also sub-agent.
These are very useful, especially if you have a long workflow.
When you establish a plan with an agent, the plan is made by several points.
Not all these points are sequential, and so they could be run parallel. in parallel way by difference budget. OK,
this is much faster in terms of achieving the goal. Clearly,
they consume more token. OK, but especially for long workflow,
this could be very helpful, especially if you set. I mean... You repeat long workflow very often.
For example, starting from an idea up to check if the
idea have sense, makes sense in some way. What you do? Well,
essentially you do brainstorming. OK, then you look for literature.
This can be done by one specific sub-agent.
You look for data, can be done by a specific sub-agent.
Once you have the data, you can run regression.
This can be done by a specific sub-agent. If you have everything done,
you want a rapper to check what has been done, if the idea makes sense,
can be done by other sub-agent. OK, some parallel way,
some other sequential way, OK? For example,
make you this kind of procedure explicit. Once you have the plan that you have to
approval, you have, you want, you could decide which point need to be
done by the same agent, which agent will do the specific point if
the point need to be If the agent need to work parallelly or
in sequential way, it's everything that you have in your
dashboard interface. You just have to click on this. OK. Then there are skill hooks and loops.
These are probably the most useful stuff for repeated task. What are skills?
Reusable procedures. How we make figures, how we check tables,
how we write a referee response. Probably you have your own style of
making table, your own style of writing draft,
your own style of making report, your style in evaluate the thesis,
for example. You can do a skill,
which essentially you can easily call each time you need to redo the same task.
So, for example... I am now moving a paper from one journal
to the other, and each journal has its own language,
its own reference to put into the in the text,
the way in which the subject is framed, and so on and so forth. So,
I create a skill. which essentially once I give the way
which the journal, the information about the journal I want
to submit, it automatically drafts me the paper in
the way which the journal wants the paper, both in terms of form,
that is the number of words, the number of figure,
the page of the manuscript, the number of pages of the appendix,
but those in terms of content. So instead of talking about educational
policy, demography prefer to talk about something
related to demography, he frame the entire staff in terms of
what demography wants. Okay, if you want to make a table,
regression table, typically I put the base value at the end,
the percentage with respect to the base value,
I keep outside the name of variable and so on and so forth.
I create a skill to create a table and so Each time the agent need to create a
table from a regression, he automatically called the skill and
created the table in the way which I want the way I want the skill the table to be
to be done. hooks.
This is automatic check before or after agent act. If you put an hooks,
essentially this is a procedure that run each time something happened.
It's like an if. OK, an if loop. Um... Loops, essentially, this is automation,
proper automation. For example, you want to keep updated with the
literature, you can create a loop that each week on
Monday, going to search on specific sources of
the all new papers. that have been published with respect to
the field that you need to read about. OK, or rather. This time that I add to a paper a new
specification, he run specific robustness tests on that
new specification and update the draft. Okay,
these are all automation that the agent can do. Actually. At the beginning,
you will not have all this stuff because you have to create this habit.
But once you start to do things with agent,
the best thing to do once something works is creating this stuff.
Because this is really the time saving part of all the agent. Yes. No, no depend on the agent.
There are also agents that work when the laptop is down on the code.
Open Code is an agent system that work outside of your laptop,
so you can also turn off the depend on the agent.
Most of the typical agent you have. To the laptop, turn on, turn it on. You can do, I mean,
you can run your agent, for example, Cloud Codex,
you can run them also on the OpenAI Cloud and Entropic Cloud.
You can do that with your plan without adding more money. But typically what I do is installing on
this, your agent or your mobile, you left the laptop,
turn it on at your place, and you are the seaside,
and you just work. I mean, just control the work done by the agent. and chat with the agent.
This is the best thing to free time and still working in good with good quality.
Moreover, if you create this stuff, managing workflow skill is very easy.
You just, I want to, I am the C side, I want to, I receive the rejection from Journal of Public Economics.
And then I want to move to demography. I just ask the agent, OK,
apply the skill journal and give me the result of the draft for demography.
He does everything. Then he provided me in the chat with the
artifact generated. I control the artifact generated or
directly generated in overleaf, for example. I read the overleaf,
I want to change this stuff, blah blah blah, and then from the C side,
they can resubmit directly. It's very... Very easy to do.
But what I suggest is start, when you start to use agent,
if you see something that is repeatable and it works very well because the agent
did it very well, create a skill or create a workflow,
which is a command, which is easier, is better than a skill because It is not you is not charged by the agent
by default. You need to call it with slash slash
workflow. OK, and they start to do essentially it's
like a prompting without prompting. He already knows what to do. You can. Again, one, I mean,
it might be knowledge base. I have a session start prompt and session
and prompt. In the session and prompt, he knows, just read this prompt,
this markdown in the prompt, there is, if you find the conversation something
that can be scalable, make the skill. A automatically create a skill,
if see if it is see something that can be reused in some in other project or in the
same project. OK, you can use the, I mean, the entire knowledge base that I did had
been created by the agent. I didn't it manually,
I didn't write down each. Note, I just add a project, my brain,
in which I create my knowledge base using the agent. Okay,
so just some case studies teaser for the next session. Little review. I mean,
this is tentative because probably I will not go through all of them. Moreover,
I would like to show you a live screen from the scratch some idea. Not something that have been done by me
replicated by really new idea that show you the kind of problem that you can
encounter once you use agent. So one thing that's very cool with agent
that I revive that project, that project, I mean, project that I Put, I mean, rest in peace project,
I would call in the. So, what I'm gonna do is showing you
something that I've done so far with the agent related to specific task within
research flow, but also outside the research flow, and The idea is to see together how this work,
the kind of problem that you can face when you start to generate data set from
scratch, to review code, to create new tables,
and so on and so forth. OK, so I leave you here without going through all these examples just because we're
going to do this example in the next session.
I hope that you find this helpful and we're going to see and meet again next
Wednesday. Okay?
